  

# How to Open a Sewing and Alteration Business

You can turn sewing skills into a small business through careful
planning.


You can start a small business by taking advantage of your sewing skills. By
offering services, such as clothing repair, custom tailoring and button
replacement, you can create a steady income with a business that has returning
customers. You have the choice of starting as a home-based business or setting
up shop in a retail location. Your success will depend on the quality of your
marketing and customer service, as well as the quality of your work.

  1. #### 1.

Check your equipment. You must have a commercial-grade sewing machine that can
stand up to repeated use as well as a variety of fabrics. Make sure the
machine is in good repair and establish a relationship with someone who can do
routine maintenance on it. You must also have a second machine in case your
main machine goes out of service temporarily. The backup machine does not have
to be as expensive or heavy-duty as your primary machine, but it should be
reliable enough for you to use to complete orders. Your equipment is the core
of your business, so even if you buy used equipment, make sure it is the best
quality you can afford.

  2. #### 2.

Choose your location. You can start from home if you want to save on overhead,
but you must be sure you are surrounded by enough businesses and homes to
supply you with a steady supply of customers. If your home is isolated from
populous areas, consider opening a shop closer to potential customers. Sewing
and alterations businesses tend to be very local, meaning that customers won't
travel great distances for your services.

  3. #### 3.

Market your company by partnering with other businesses. Visit local laundry
services and dry cleaners and offer to give them 10 percent of every order
that comes through a referral from them. Post flyers on bulletin boards at
laundromats. Offer clothing stores your alteration services; their customers
might need custom hemming and fitting. This can improve the clothing store's
service while providing you with new customers. If you have a reliable
vehicle, you can offer a pickup and delivery service.

  4. #### 4.

Retain customers. Always cultivate repeat customers. Do this by following up
with a phone call to see if a customer was satisfied with your work. Also
offer to fix any problems with your work at no extra charge. Offer discounts
to repeat customers, and send out postcards regularly to remind them that you
appreciate their business.

References

  *  Internet Based Moms: Start an Alterations and Repairs Business 

Tips

  * Add a charge for your pickup and delivery service because travel time is time you could be earning income through sewing. You also deserve to be paid for your gasoline expense. 
