
Nurses and doctors are required to wear medical uniforms, scrubs, in doctor’s
offices and hospitals all around the world. This opens up a great opportunity
to become a medical scrubs and uniform retailer. Below are several things to
consider before becoming a medical scrubs retailer.

## Business Licensing Requirements

Apply for a business license from your local municipality. This serves to
register your business with your city or county. Apply for a tax account with
your state department of taxes as you will need to collect sales tax on items
sold – if your state has sales tax. Apply, too, for a tax identification
number TIN or an employer identification number EIN with the Internal
Revenue Service IRS.

If you are still not sure about all the licensing requirements to become a
medical scrubs and uniform retailer, you can contact the Uniform Retailers
Association URA, a not-for-profit trade association dedicated to the growth
and prosperity of the independent uniform retailer.

## Contact Medical Uniform Manufacturers

The first thing you will need to do is find and contact manufacturers of
medical scrubs such as Landau, Fashion Seal and Cherokee. Make sure to look
for things such as:

  * **Quality.** Look for brands that are made with materials and needlework that can withstand the industry high temperatures that are necessary when cleaning medical uniforms.  

  * **Style.** Look for brands that offer more colors then the conventional green and blue. Doctors and nurses may have to wear scrubs all day, but it doesn't  mean that they don't want to express themselves with a little bit of style. For example, Cherokee offers several nursing scrubs with designs that incorporate floral patterns, cartoon characters and pop culture reference.   

  * **Comfort.** Doctors, nurses and medical personnel will be wearing these uniforms all day. It is important that they are comfortable. For example, Fashion Seal provides scrubs with moisture wicking side panels.  

## Where Should You Locate Your Business?

Determine if you will have a retail store location or if you will sell
directly to offices, hospitals and other stores. If you decide to open a
retail store, you must find one that's suitable, negotiate to lease or
purchase the space and set it up for business. However, if you choose to sell
directly to hospitals, offices and schools, etc., you only need to invest in
an office space in your home or other location.

## Marketing Your Medical Uniform Business

Market your business to the offices, hospitals, schools and other businesses
that will be interested in your uniforms. Bring catalogs, price lists, samples
and business cards with you when you visit. Advertise your medical scrubs
business in medical publications, such as The New England Journal of Medicine,
American Journal of Public Health and The Journal of Clinical Investigation,
and nursing journals, such as the American Journal of Nursing, The Journal for
Nurse Practitioners and the Journal of Advanced Nursing.

To help expand your reach, design a website where you can sell your products.
If you don’t know how to do it yourself, you can use ecommerce platforms such
as Shopify. They provide ready made templates and drag and drop features that
allow you to easily design an ecommerce website.
